docs: Add Loan tutorial (#1715)
tendermint/starport: docs/guide/loan.md

With DeFi, end users can quickly and easily access loans without having to submit their passports or background checks like in the traditional banking system.

In this tutorial, you learn about a basic loan system as you use Starport to build a loan module.

**You will learn how to**

* Scaffold a blockchain
* Scaffold a Cosmos SDK loan module
* Scaffold a list for loan objects
* Create messages in the loan module to interact with the loan object
* Interact with other Cosmos SDK modules
* Use an escrow module account
* Add application messages for a loan system
  * Request loan
  * Approve loan
  * Repay loan
  * Liquidate loan
  * Cancel loan

**Note:** The code in this tutorial is written specifically for this learning experience and is intended only for educational purposes. This tutorial code is not intended to be used in production.

## Module Design

A loan consists of:

- An `id`
- The `amount` that is being lent
- A `fee` as cost for the loan
- The borrowing party provides a `collateral` to request a loan 

> - A loan has a `deadline` for repayment, after which the loan can be liquidated

Reviewer: In that context, I feel "due" is a softer term after which you might be given an extension subjected to some penalty. But since after the "deadline" we liquidate the collateral, I think its more appropriate to use "deadline"

- `fee`
- `collateral` 
- `deadline`

The borrower must repay the loan amount and the loan fee to the lender by the deadline risk losing the collateral.

### The Lender

A lender can approve a loan request from a borrower. 

- After the lender approves the loan, the loan amount is transferred to the borrower. 
- If the borrower is unable to pay the loan, the lender can liquidate the loan.
- Loan liquidation transfers the collateral and the fees to the lender.

## Scaffold the Blockchain

Use Starport to scaffold a fully functional Cosmos SDK blockchain app named `loan`:

```bash
starport scaffold chain github.com/cosmonaut/loan --no-module
```

The `--no-module` flag prevents scaffolding a default module. Don't worry, you will add the loan module later.

Change into the newly created `loan` directory:

```bash
cd loan
```

## Scaffold the Module

Scaffold the module to create a new `loan` module. Following the Cosmos SDK convention, all modules are scaffolded inside the `x` directory:

```bash
starport scaffold module loan --dep bank
```

Use the `--dep` flag to specify that this module depends on and is going to interact with the Cosmos SDK `bank` module.

## Scaffold a List

> Use the [scaffold list](https://docs.starport.com/cli/#starport-scaffold-list) command to create data stored as an array:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the [scaffold list](https://docs.starport.com/cli/#starport-scaffold-list) command to store loans in an array-like data structure:
```

```bash
starport scaffold list loan amount fee collateral deadline state borrower lender --no-message
```

> Use the `--no-message` flag to disable CRUD messages in the scaffold.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `--no-message` flag to disable the default create, update, and delete messages in the scaffold. The `loan` blockchain will have custom messages instead (like "liquidate loan") and you will scaffold these messages later in the tutorial.
```

> The data you store in an array are the loans, with these parameters that are defined in the `Loan` message in `proto/loan/loan.proto`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The data you store in an array-like data structure are the loans, with these parameters that are defined in the `Loan` message in `proto/loan/loan.proto`:
```

```proto

> message Loan {

Reviewer: I agree. This might be repetitive. We can just remove the one above as the schema is quite self explanatory

  uint64 id = 1;
  string amount = 2; 
  string fee = 3; 
  string collateral = 4; 
  string deadline = 5; 
  string state = 6; 
  string borrower = 7; 
  string lender = 8;  
}
```

Later, you define the messages to interact with the loan list.

Now it is time to use messages to interact with the loan module. But first, make sure to store your current state in a git commit:

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Scaffold loan module and loan list"
```

## Scaffold the Messages

In order to create a loan app, you need the following messages:

> * Request loan `request-loan`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Request loan
```

* Approve loan
* Repay loan
* Liquidate loan
* Cancel loan

You can use the `starport scaffold message` command to create each of the messages. 

You define the details of each message when you scaffold them.

Create the messages one at a time with the according application logic.

### Request Loan Message

For a loan, the initial message handles the transaction when a cosmonaut requests a loan.

> The cosmonaut wants a certain `amount` and is willing to pay `fees` as well as give `collateral`. The `deadline` marks the time when the loan has to be repayed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The cosmonaut wants a certain `amount` and is willing to pay `fees` as well as give `collateral`. The `deadline` marks the time when the loan has to be repaid.
```

Modify the `x/loan/keeper/msg_server_approve_loan.go` to implement this logic:

```go
package keeper

import (
	"context"
	"fmt"

	"github.com/cosmonaut/loan/x/loan/types"
	sdk "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/types"
	sdkerrors "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/types/errors"
)

func (k msgServer) ApproveLoan(goCtx context.Context, msg *types.MsgApproveLoan) (*types.MsgApproveLoanResponse, error) {
	ctx := sdk.UnwrapSDKContext(goCtx)

	loan, found := k.GetLoan(ctx, msg.Id)
	if !found {
		return nil, sdkerrors.Wrapf(sdkerrors.ErrKeyNotFound, fmt.Sprintf("key %d doesn't exist", msg.Id))
	}

	// TODO: for some reason the error doesn't get printed to the terminal
	if loan.State != "requested" {
		return nil, sdkerrors.Wrapf(types.ErrWrongLoanState, "%v", loan.State)
	}

	lender, _ := sdk.AccAddressFromBech32(msg.Creator)
	borrower, _ := sdk.AccAddressFromBech32(loan.Borrower)
	amount, _ := sdk.ParseCoinsNormalized(loan.Amount)

	k.bankKeeper.SendCoins(ctx, lender, borrower, amount)

	loan.Lender = msg.Creator
	loan.State = "approved"

	k.SetLoan(ctx, loan)

	return &types.MsgApproveLoanResponse{}, nil
}
```

> This module uses the `SendCoins` function of `bankKeepers`. Add this `SendCoins` function to the `x/loan/types/expected_keepers.go` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This module uses the `SendCoins` function of `bankKeeper`. Add this `SendCoins` function to the `x/loan/types/expected_keepers.go` file:
```
